---
layout: post
title: "Demystifying (Deep) Reinforcement Learning: The Pessimist, The Optimist, and Their Provable Efficiency"
author: Zhuoran Yang
homepage: https://www.princeton.edu/~zy6/
image: https://www.princeton.edu/~zy6/current/zhuoran.jpg
org: Princeton University -> Yale University
time: 2021-11-12
hour: 11 AM - 12 PM ET
loc: ""
zoom: https://virginia.zoom.us/meeting/register/tJcsc-uqqTwoE9HJazNlMHNK4DwZ0pG3bUjM
editor: Yangfeng Ji
---

**Abstract** 

Coupled with powerful function approximators such as deep neural networks, reinforcement learning (RL) achieves tremendous empirical successes. However, its theoretical understanding lags behind. In particular, it remains unclear how to provably attain the optimal policy with a finite regret or sample complexity. In this talk, we will present the two sides of the same coin, which demonstrates an intriguing duality between pessimism and optimism.

- In the offline setting, we aim to learn the optimal policy based on a dataset collected a priori. Due to a lack of active interactions with the environment, we suffer from the insufficient coverage of the dataset. To maximally exploit the dataset, we propose a pessimistic least-squares value iteration algorithm, which achieves a minimax-optimal sample complexity.
- In the online setting, we aim to learn the optimal policy by actively interacting with an environment. To strike a balance between exploration and exploitation, we propose an optimistic least-squares value iteration algorithm, which achieves a \sqrt{T} regret in the presence of linear, kernel, and neural function approximators.


**Bio**

Zhuoran Yang obtained his PhD from the Department of Operations Research and Financial Engineering at Princeton University, advised by Professor Jianqing Fan and Professor Han Liu. His research interests lie in the interface between machine learning, statistics, and optimization. The primary goal of his research is to design a new generation of machine learning algorithms for large-scale and multi-agent decision-making problems, with both statistical and computational guarantees. He will be joining the Department of Statistics and Data Science at Yale University as an assistant professor starting from Fall 2022. 


*Note: this talk will also be recorded*
