---
layout: post
title: "Trustworthy AI/ML Panel"
author: David Evans & Ferdinando Fioretto
homepage: "https://uvaml.github.io/"
image: "https://uvaml.github.io/assets/trustworthy-panel-speakers.png"
org: "UVA CS"
time: 2025-09-17
hour: 12:00 - 13:00 ET
loc: "Rice 540"
zoom: ""
editor: Yen-Ling Kuo
---

**Abstract**
As AI/ML tools and technologies are getting into many fields, have you ever thought about or wanted to know "the impact of biases in AI/LLM tools" or "what ethical AI/ML is"? Join Prof. David Evans and Prof. Ferdinando Fioretto at UVA CS to have a conversation on these critical issues and the future of trustworthy AI systems. 

**Bio: Prof. David Evans**
David Evans works understanding and improving the trustworthiness of machine learning including privacy, security, and other properties including fairness and censorship.

**Bio: Prof. Ferdinando Fioretto**
Ferdinando Fioretto works on machine learning, optimization, differential privacy, and fairness. His recent work focuses on (1) the integration of constrained optimization and machine learning to enhance the expressive ability of machine learning models and (2) understanding the interplay among privacy, equity, robustness, and performance in machine learning models and decision tasks. He is a recipient of the Amazon Research Award, the NSF CAREER award, the Google Research Scholar Award, the Caspar Bowden PET award, the ISSNAF Mario Gerla Young Investigator Award, the ACP Early Career Researcher Award, the AI*AI Best AI dissertation award, and several best paper awards.

