---
layout: post
title: "A Conversation on AI/ML Research Ethics"
author: CS Graduate Students
homepage: "https://uvaml.github.io/"
image: "https://uvaml.github.io/assets/speakers/research-ethics-organizers.jpeg"
org: "UVA CS"
time: 2026-01-28
hour: 12:00 - 13:00 ET
loc: "Rice 540"
zoom: ""
editor: Yen-Ling Kuo
---

**Abstract**
AI research has been crucial to building and evaluating AI technologies that are prevalent in our everyday lives. As AI research continues to expand and evolve, it is important to discuss the ethics of the technologies we create, the culture of our labs and of our research fields, and the research practices we follow. We invite students and faculty to join us for an hour of conversation around ethics in AI/ML research to discuss these issues. The seminar will be structured as an open conversation, with guiding questions and case studies to promote discussion.

**Bio of Organizers**

**Alireza Jafari** is a Ph.D. candidate in computer science at the University of Virginia. He earned his master's degree in computer science, focusing on graph machine learning from the University of Tehran. Alireza’s research interests include machine learning, foundations of AI, time series prediction, and foundation models.

**Saleha Muzammil** is a first-year PhD student. Her research lies in the intersection of security and AI. 

**Mughesh Kumar** N R is a Master’s student in Computer Science at the University of Virginia. He previously completed the Startup Semester program at UC Berkeley. His research focuses on machine learning, human-wearable devices, and wireless sensor systems.

**Pranshuta Shukla** is a Master’s student in Computer Science at the University of Virginia. Her research focuses on context-aware machine learning for health and wellbeing, to better understand individual psychological and physiological patterns.

**Caroline Gihlstorf** is a third-year PhD student in computer science at the University of Virginia. Her research focuses on evaluating large language models using knowledge from linguistics.
